(WALKERS SNARLING)
(BLADES SLICING)
What happened here?
We'll never know.
(GROANING WEAKLY)
(SQUELCHING)
(TIMER TICKING)
(ALARM RINGING)
(GROWLING)
(WALKERS MOANING, GROANING)
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(GROANING)
What are you doing?
I want to search them.
There could be something here.
Two more.
(THUDDING)
(WALKER GROWLING)
(GROWLING CONTINUES)
(GRUNTS)
(SNARLING)
(STRAINING)
One, two, three, pull!
(GRUNTING)
(WALKER GROWLING SOFTLY)
(GROWLING)
AARON: Hey, do you see anything?
Just a ladder.
(WALKERS SNARLING)
Anything?
One more.
We've been at this for two weeks.
What do we have to show?
I can't.
-We've got to see this through.
-No, we don't.
We can go back,
check the hunting ground...
There's no food there. It's spent.
So is every other place
on Maggie's goddamn map!
Look, I just...
I miss my daughter.
I know you miss yours, too.
One more.
(EXHALES)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(WALKER GROWLING)
-A little help?
-Yeah.
Here.
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
There's a water tower
by our last location.
We just need to head north
until we see it, and then...
We are not doing this without a map.
-It's only an hour away.
-I don't care.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
Fine. We'll follow our tracks back.
-(THUNDER CRASHING)
-(RAIN PATTERING)
Was this on the map?
No.
(RATTLING)
Hello?
(RATTLING CONTINUES)
My name is Aaron.
I'm a friend.
Please don't be afraid.
(RATTLING CONTINUES)
Hello?
(GROWLING)
(AARON SCREAMING)
(PANTING)
He...
He just came at me.
I didn't...
I didn't, uh...
-What?
-Nothing.
It's just that was, um...
That was quite the scream.
-These things are vicious!
-Clearly. I know.
Hence the scream.
(LAUGHING)
I'm sorry.
All right.
(CONTINUES LAUGHING)
Let it all out.
Oh! (LAUGHS HYSTERICALLY)
-Are you through?
-I'm not through.
Oh, Lord.
(CONTINUES LAUGHING)
You know what I feel like?
What?
Dinner.
And...
drink.
Hey, you remember these?
I remember news footage
of people in toy stores
-trampling over each other to get them.
-Yeah.
Gracie's gonna go nuts. One for Coco.
Okay.
That's it?
Yes, that's all we get.
Why? It's just whiskey.
No, it's not just whiskey.
It's perfection.
It's rare.
This bottle easily cost over $2,000.
The fact that people would pay that much
to get drunk is a huge part
of what was wrong with the world.
The point isn't to get drunk.
It's the...
Just take the cup to your nose
and sniff.
Now take a moment...
and tell me what smells you're getting.
What does it remind you of?
Maple syrup.
Vanilla.
Breakfast as a kid.
Now take a sip and let it sit.
Now pay attention to the finish,
how the flavor evolves.
Yeah, exactly.
Now we eat
and the meat will taste even better.
Okay.
All right. Look.
I get that it's...
rare and all, but, um...
we've had a rough day, you know?
Bullshit. You don't have it.
-Then call.
-I don't have enough to call.
You have the whiskey.
Many thanks.
No, no, no. Show me.
So what does God think of you
drinking and gambling right now?
He's probably okay with it.
Yeah?
Is card sharking
part of proper priests' training?
Is there a whiskey class
in the seminary?
Actually, yes, there was. Yes.
I'm serious.
I had a mentor. Reverend George.
He was a good friend
and a great teacher.
And my first class
with him was at a boy's funeral.
Tommy Franklin.
He died of cancer. He was
on his freshman year of college and...
then he died.
And everyone in town
came to the funeral.
Reverend George performed the service.
He spoke as they lowered Tommy
into the ground
and he said all the right things
without even trying.
At least it didn't look like he was.
Anyways,
the funeral ends.
And we get in his car to go to the wake,
and he just takes off.
Eighty. The whole way.
He says, "We have to
get there before the others!"
And he's running stop signs
and saying a prayer each time he does,
and my eyes were closed the whole way.
When we get there...
he heads straight
for the liquor cabinet.
I said, "What are you doing, Reverend?"
And he says, "Shut up, Gabriel!"
And he snatches off my collar.
And then he pulls off his
and he starts pouring.
And when Tommy's father walks in...
Reverend George walks over to him,
two drinks in hand...
and...
He just starts talking.
Just talks to everyone.
And they're at ease.
They're smiling and laughing.
Then he tells me...
all I have to do
is be with them in the moment.
Speak from my heart
and don't worry about
what I think they want to hear.
And I tried,
but I'm not as good at it as he is.
And later, he tells me that
real ministering
isn't preaching from a pulpit,
it's talking to people one-on-one...
on their own terms.
Just relating to them, you know?
That's how I know about whiskey.
That's how I know about a lot of things.
(AARON GRUNTS)
You need to start preaching again.
No, you do.
I'm gonna be mad at you if you don't.
Listen.
When I was out there...
finding people to bring to Alexandria...
that felt right.
Helping people was right.
We haven't done that for a long time.
We've got to get back to it.
I don't want to preach anymore.
Why?
You really think things are gonna
go back to the way they were?
It has to.
It won't.
The world isn't built...
for the way we used to be.
You don't believe that.
Your head is all over the Whisperers...
It's who and what they were.
That is not most people.
Evil people aren't the exception
to the rule,
they are the rule.
Well, now I'm sober.
After this next round, I'm gonna...
climb up to the roof
and jump off head-first.
You want me to perform your last rites?
I'll get back to you.
(BALL CLATTERS)
-Ow!
-Sorry.
(SNORING)
(SNORES LOUDLY)
-Where are you going?
-To piss.
Aaron.
Aaron?
(SOFT GRUNT)
What were you cookin'?
What?
I said...
what were you cookin'?
Boar.
"Boar."
How was it?
The boar, how was it?
It was good.
I'd like a bite.
My name is Gabriel. What's yours?
I came here with a friend of mine.
Have you seen him?
Can I ask what it is that you want?
Seems like you're the ones
that are wantin'.
Ones that break into my place.
Eat my boar.
Drink my whiskey.
It didn't look like anyone lived here.
(SCOFFS) Oh, yeah.
So, you figured that boar
got into that room by itself?
We were just looking for food.
We meant no harm.
Does this say no harm to you?
You should know
that we're part of a larger group.
More than 20 armed fighters,
they'll be coming
if we don't get back soon.
I don't bluff as easy as your buddy
in your little card game.
You think it's loaded?
There aren't a lot of bullets left
in the world.
-You think he made it?
-What?
Your friend. He's in there.
Easy.
-Still breathing I think.
-I want to see him.
-Why do you wear that?
-What?
The collar.
Why are you still wearin' that?
Probably for the same reason
you keep all those Bibles.
I wear it because the word of God
still matters.
It's a light in an otherwise
very dark world.
And a reminder of the goodness
still within us.
Things like love, mercy, forgiveness.
Toilet paper.
What?
The Bibles.
They're my toilet paper.
I like the thin pages.
And I can find 'em everywhere.
Maybe instead of wiping your ass with it,
you should read it.
(SCOFFS) Yeah, I've read it.
Cover to cover.
That's why I wipe my ass with it.
It must be hard preaching about
something you don't believe in.
I do believe.
"Evil people
aren't the exception to the rule.
"They are the rule."
-I was drunk.
-A drunk tongue's an honest one.
There's nothing left in this world
but thieves and murderers.
No, there's still goodness.
You just have to look for it.
Who are you trying to convince, Padre?
Me or you?
You're so close.
Close to what?
(WHEELS DRAGGING)
One round.
One-in-six chance.
You've got a choice.
Each time you can point it at yourself,
or the man sitting across from you.
Winner goes home.
We're not doing this.
Then you both die.
How do we know you won't
kill us both anyway?
You don't.
We can make this right,
get you a new boar.
It's not about the boar.
Then what is it about?
Enlightenment.
Now go ahead.
Him or you, Father? Pick.
(GUN CLICKS)
Now you.
Why are you doing this?
What happened to your arm?
It was crushed...
in a construction accident.
Huh.
Who blinded you?
No one. It was an infection.
What, you wanted to hear
that someone plucked my eye out?
Or chopped his arm off? Why?
To prove how evil man is?
That what this is about?
You think I'm going to shoot him
or he's gonna shoot me?
Quiet.
Hey, pick it up and point it
at your head or his.
Now. Now!
(GUN CLICKS)
(GUN CLICKING)
Did you hear that?
Makes a different sound
when the chamber loads.
You got a choice to make, son.
We're not thieves and murderers.
We don't kill each other.
And we protect each other.
We're like family.
Family?
Is that supposed to mean something?
You wanna hear about family?
When I was with my brother
and his family, and we were on the road,
and I saved their lives
more times than I can count.
And then one day, I wake up
and there's my brother
stealing the last of my food.
Then he just stares at me.
And then he comes at me
with a knife and...
What happened?
I handled it.
But I didn't blame my brother...
'cause he gave me
something valuable that day.
He didn't give you anything.
What did you say?
You're just trying to make sense
out of what happened to you,
so you wall yourself off in here
believing that everyone left is evil
or only out for themselves,
because it's easier to accept
than the truth.
That you meant less to your brother
than some scraps of food.
-Gabriel.
-No, he's gonna hear this.
I know something about
looking for the meaning in things,
but most times there isn't any.
No answers, no grand design.
Your brother
didn't give you any enlightenment,
just a ripped-up face.
And you're so full of hate
that you can't see that
you're about to murder two good people.
And for what?
To prove what?
That you aren't any different.
Yes, we are.
Now pull that trigger.
I said, pull it!
Him or you? Who is it gonna be?
What about Gracie?
You wanna see her again, don't you?
Well, then you know what you gotta do.
Don't look at him.
Do you want to see your daughter again
or not?
-Yes, I do!
-Then what are you waiting for?
Three! Two! One!
Stop!
This is who people are!
-This is truth!
-You are wrong.
I was wrong.
People in this world are capable
of more than just killing each other.
They still love, still sacrifice.
Your brother didn't give you any truth.
He just betrayed you.
And if you punish others for his sins,
then you're no better than him.
Now, you weren't always like this.
None of us were.
You have to remember who you were.
-I know who I am!
-I do, too,
because I know people just like you.
We both do.
Good people
who've been broken by this world.
You don't have to be like this.
There is another way.
Our community is real.
It's full of people who were lost
and found their way back.
You can, too.
We can help you, if you'll let us.
Father, I don't believe you.
You should.
Because that's who we are.
(EXHALES HEAVILY)
Maze.
(MAZE GRUNTS)
My name is Maze.
(GASPING)
It's okay. We're good.
Are we?
We couldn't take him with us.
He killed his brother's family.
Let's just go.
What?
He heard everything we said last night.
Where was he hiding?
(GRUNTS)
It's his brother.
MAN: My family. He made me play.
He made me play.
We are not going to hurt you.
Hey, hey. Drop it.
GABRIEL: Easy.
We just want to help you.
-Help?
-GABRIEL: Yes.
Get you out of here.
You can come with us.
Just put the gun down.
-No. No, wait!
-(GUNSHOT)
(PANTING)
Water tower.
Last place on the map.
What do you think?
One more.
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)